clients/js/README.md, before:

# Wormhole CLI

This tool is a command line interface to Wormhole.

## Installation

    make install

This installs two binaries, `worm-fetch-governance` and `worm` on your `$PATH`.

To use `worm`, set up `$HOME/.wormhole/.env` with your
private keys, based on `.env.sample` in this folder.

## Usage

```sh
worm [command]

Commands:
  worm edit-vaa                                   Allows editing / creating / signing VAAs
  worm generate                                   generate VAAs (devnet and testnet
                                                  only)
  worm parse <vaa>                                Parse a VAA (can be in either hex or
                                                  base64 format)
  worm recover <digest> <signature>               Recover an address from a signature
  worm info contract <network> <chain> <module>   Print contract address
  worm info rpc <network> <chain>                 Print RPC address
  worm info chain-id <chain>                      Print the wormhole chain ID integer
                                                  associated with the specified chain name
  worm evm                                        EVM utilites
  worm aptos                                      Aptos utilities
  worm near                                       NEAR utilities
  worm submit <vaa>                               Execute a VAA
  worm update                                     Update this tool by rebuilding it
  worm verify-vaa --vaa <vaa> --network <network> Verifies a VAA by calling into the core contract

Options:
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
```

Consult the `--help` flag for using subcommands.

### VAA generation

Use `generate` to create VAAs for testing. For example, to create an NFT bridge registration VAA:

```sh
$ worm generate registration --module NFTBridge \
    --chain bsc \
    --contract-address 0x706abc4E45D419950511e474C7B9Ed348A4a716c \
    --guardian-secret cfb12303a19cde580bb4dd771639b0d26bc68353645571a8cff516ab2ee113a0
```

Example creating a token attestation VAA:

```sh
$ worm generate attestation --emitter-chain ethereum \
    --emitter-address 11111111111111111111111111111115 \
    --chain ethereum \
    --token-address 0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48 \
    --decimals 6 \
    --symbol USDC \
    --name USDC \
    --guardian-secret cfb12303a19cde580bb4dd771639b0d26bc68353645571a8cff516ab2ee113a0
```

### VAA parsing

Use `parse` to parse a VAA into JSON. For example,

    worm parse $(worm-fetch-governance 13940208096455381020)

will fetch governance VAA `13940208096455381020` and print it as JSON.

```sh
# ...signatures elided
timestamp: 1651416474,
nonce: 1570649151,
emitterChain: 1,
emitterAddress: '0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004',
sequence: 13940208096455381020n,
consistencyLevel: 32,
payload: {
  module: 'Core',
  type: 'GuardianSetUpgrade',
  chain: 0,
  newGuardianSetIndex: 2,
  newGuardianSetLength: 19,
  newGuardianSet: [
    '58cc3ae5c097b213ce3c81979e1b9f9570746aa5',
    'ff6cb952589bde862c25ef4392132fb9d4a42157',
    '114de8460193bdf3a2fcf81f86a09765f4762fd1',
    '107a0086b32d7a0977926a205131d8731d39cbeb',
    '8c82b2fd82faed2711d59af0f2499d16e726f6b2',
    '11b39756c042441be6d8650b69b54ebe715e2343',
    '54ce5b4d348fb74b958e8966e2ec3dbd4958a7cd',
    '66b9590e1c41e0b226937bf9217d1d67fd4e91f5',
    '74a3bf913953d695260d88bc1aa25a4eee363ef0',
    '000ac0076727b35fbea2dac28fee5ccb0fea768e',
    'af45ced136b9d9e24903464ae889f5c8a723fc14',
    'f93124b7c738843cbb89e864c862c38cddcccf95',
    'd2cc37a4dc036a8d232b48f62cdd4731412f4890',
    'da798f6896a3331f64b48c12d1d57fd9cbe70811',
    '71aa1be1d36cafe3867910f99c09e347899c19c3',
    '8192b6e7387ccd768277c17dab1b7a5027c0b3cf',
    '178e21ad2e77ae06711549cfbb1f9c7a9d8096e8',
    '5e1487f35515d02a92753504a8d75471b9f49edb',
    '6fbebc898f403e4773e95feb15e80c9a99c8348d'
  ]
}
```

### Submitting VAAs

Use `submit` to submit a VAA to a chain. It first parses the VAA and figures out
what's the destination chain and module. For example, a contract upgrade contains both the target chain and module, so the only required argument is the network moniker (`mainnet` or `testnet`):

    worm submit $(cat my-nft-registration.txt) --network mainnet

For VAAs that don't have a specific target chain (like registrations or guardian
set upgrades), the script will ask you to specify the target chain.
For example, to submit a guardian set upgrade on all chains, simply run:

```sh
$ worm-fetch-governance 13940208096455381020 > guardian-upgrade.txt
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain oasis
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain aurora
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain fantom
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain karura
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain acala
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain klaytn
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain avalanche
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain polygon
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain bsc
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain solana
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain terra
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain ethereum
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain celo
```

The VAA payload type (guardian set upgrade) specifies that this VAA should go to the core bridge, and the tool directs it there.

### info

To get info about a contract (only EVM supported at this time)

```sh
$ worm evm info -c bsc -n mainnet -m TokenBridge

{
  "address": "0xB6F6D86a8f9879A9c87f643768d9efc38c1Da6E7",
  "wormhole": "0x98f3c9e6E3fAce36bAAd05FE09d375Ef1464288B",
  "implementation": "0xEe91C335eab126dF5fDB3797EA9d6aD93aeC9722",
  "isInitialized": true,
  "tokenImplementation": "0xb6D7bbdE7c46a8B784F4a19C7FDA0De34b9577DB",
  "chainId": 4,
  "governanceChainId": 1,
  "governanceContract": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004",
  "WETH": "0xbb4CdB9CBd36B01bD1cBaEBF2De08d9173bc095c",
  "registrations": {
    "solana": "0xec7372995d5cc8732397fb0ad35c0121e0eaa90d26f828a534cab54391b3a4f5",
    "ethereum": "0x0000000000000000000000003ee18b2214aff97000d974cf647e7c347e8fa585",
    "terra": "0x0000000000000000000000007cf7b764e38a0a5e967972c1df77d432510564e2",
    "polygon": "0x0000000000000000000000005a58505a96d1dbf8df91cb21b54419fc36e93fde",
    "avalanche": "0x0000000000000000000000000e082f06ff657d94310cb8ce8b0d9a04541d8052",
    "oasis": "0x0000000000000000000000005848c791e09901b40a9ef749f2a6735b418d7564",
    "algorand": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "aurora": "0x00000000000000000000000051b5123a7b0f9b2ba265f9c4c8de7d78d52f510f",
    "fantom": "0x0000000000000000000000007c9fc5741288cdfdd83ceb07f3ea7e22618d79d2",
    "karura": "0x000000000000000000000000ae9d7fe007b3327aa64a32824aaac52c42a6e624",
    "acala": "0x000000000000000000000000ae9d7fe007b3327aa64a32824aaac52c42a6e624",
    "klaytn": "0x0000000000000000000000005b08ac39eaed75c0439fc750d9fe7e1f9dd0193f",
    "celo": "0x000000000000000000000000796dff6d74f3e27060b71255fe517bfb23c93eed",
    "near": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "injective": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "osmosis": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "sui": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "aptos": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "moonbeam": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "neon": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "terra2": "0xa463ad028fb79679cfc8ce1efba35ac0e77b35080a1abe9bebe83461f176b0a3",
    "arbitrum": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "optimism": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "gnosis": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  }
}

```

### Misc

To get the contract address for a module:

    $ worm info contract mainnet bsc NFTBridge

To get the RPC address for a chain

    $ worm info rpc mainnet bsc

Commit message:

Client/js: Add command to generate emitter addrs
Change-Id: Icb06990ca2004df3e01223a63e2142a77b10c47b

clients/js/README.md, after:

# Wormhole CLI

This tool is a command line interface to Wormhole.

## Installation

    make install

This installs two binaries, `worm-fetch-governance` and `worm` on your `$PATH`.

To use `worm`, set up `$HOME/.wormhole/.env` with your
private keys, based on `.env.sample` in this folder.

## Usage

```sh
worm [command]

Commands:
  worm edit-vaa                                   Allows editing / creating / signing VAAs
  worm generate                                   generate VAAs (devnet and testnet
                                                  only)
  worm parse <vaa>                                Parse a VAA (can be in either hex or
                                                  base64 format)
  worm recover <digest> <signature>               Recover an address from a signature
  worm info contract <network> <chain> <module>   Print contract address
  worm info convert-to-emitter <chain> <address>  Prints address in emitter address form based
                                                  on chain encoding
  worm info rpc <network> <chain>                 Print RPC address
  worm info chain-id <chain>                      Print the wormhole chain ID integer
                                                  associated with the specified chain name
  worm evm                                        EVM utilites
  worm aptos                                      Aptos utilities
  worm near                                       NEAR utilities
  worm submit <vaa>                               Execute a VAA
  worm update                                     Update this tool by rebuilding it
  worm verify-vaa --vaa <vaa> --network <network> Verifies a VAA by calling into the core contract

Options:
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
```

Consult the `--help` flag for using subcommands.

### VAA generation

Use `generate` to create VAAs for testing. For example, to create an NFT bridge registration VAA:

```sh
$ worm generate registration --module NFTBridge \
    --chain bsc \
    --contract-address 0x706abc4E45D419950511e474C7B9Ed348A4a716c \
    --guardian-secret cfb12303a19cde580bb4dd771639b0d26bc68353645571a8cff516ab2ee113a0
```

Example creating a token attestation VAA:

```sh
$ worm generate attestation --emitter-chain ethereum \
    --emitter-address 11111111111111111111111111111115 \
    --chain ethereum \
    --token-address 0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48 \
    --decimals 6 \
    --symbol USDC \
    --name USDC \
    --guardian-secret cfb12303a19cde580bb4dd771639b0d26bc68353645571a8cff516ab2ee113a0
```

### VAA parsing

Use `parse` to parse a VAA into JSON. For example,

    worm parse $(worm-fetch-governance 13940208096455381020)

will fetch governance VAA `13940208096455381020` and print it as JSON.

```sh
# ...signatures elided
timestamp: 1651416474,
nonce: 1570649151,
emitterChain: 1,
emitterAddress: '0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004',
sequence: 13940208096455381020n,
consistencyLevel: 32,
payload: {
  module: 'Core',
  type: 'GuardianSetUpgrade',
  chain: 0,
  newGuardianSetIndex: 2,
  newGuardianSetLength: 19,
  newGuardianSet: [
    '58cc3ae5c097b213ce3c81979e1b9f9570746aa5',
    'ff6cb952589bde862c25ef4392132fb9d4a42157',
    '114de8460193bdf3a2fcf81f86a09765f4762fd1',
    '107a0086b32d7a0977926a205131d8731d39cbeb',
    '8c82b2fd82faed2711d59af0f2499d16e726f6b2',
    '11b39756c042441be6d8650b69b54ebe715e2343',
    '54ce5b4d348fb74b958e8966e2ec3dbd4958a7cd',
    '66b9590e1c41e0b226937bf9217d1d67fd4e91f5',
    '74a3bf913953d695260d88bc1aa25a4eee363ef0',
    '000ac0076727b35fbea2dac28fee5ccb0fea768e',
    'af45ced136b9d9e24903464ae889f5c8a723fc14',
    'f93124b7c738843cbb89e864c862c38cddcccf95',
    'd2cc37a4dc036a8d232b48f62cdd4731412f4890',
    'da798f6896a3331f64b48c12d1d57fd9cbe70811',
    '71aa1be1d36cafe3867910f99c09e347899c19c3',
    '8192b6e7387ccd768277c17dab1b7a5027c0b3cf',
    '178e21ad2e77ae06711549cfbb1f9c7a9d8096e8',
    '5e1487f35515d02a92753504a8d75471b9f49edb',
    '6fbebc898f403e4773e95feb15e80c9a99c8348d'
  ]
}
```

### Submitting VAAs

Use `submit` to submit a VAA to a chain. It first parses the VAA and figures out
what's the destination chain and module. For example, a contract upgrade contains both the target chain and module, so the only required argument is the network moniker (`mainnet` or `testnet`):

    worm submit $(cat my-nft-registration.txt) --network mainnet

For VAAs that don't have a specific target chain (like registrations or guardian
set upgrades), the script will ask you to specify the target chain.
For example, to submit a guardian set upgrade on all chains, simply run:

```sh
$ worm-fetch-governance 13940208096455381020 > guardian-upgrade.txt
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain oasis
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain aurora
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain fantom
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain karura
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain acala
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain klaytn
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain avalanche
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain polygon
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain bsc
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain solana
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain terra
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain ethereum
$ worm submit $(cat guardian-upgrade.txt) --network mainnet --chain celo
```

The VAA payload type (guardian set upgrade) specifies that this VAA should go to the core bridge, and the tool directs it there.

### info

To get info about a contract (only EVM supported at this time)

```sh
$ worm evm info -c bsc -n mainnet -m TokenBridge

{
  "address": "0xB6F6D86a8f9879A9c87f643768d9efc38c1Da6E7",
  "wormhole": "0x98f3c9e6E3fAce36bAAd05FE09d375Ef1464288B",
  "implementation": "0xEe91C335eab126dF5fDB3797EA9d6aD93aeC9722",
  "isInitialized": true,
  "tokenImplementation": "0xb6D7bbdE7c46a8B784F4a19C7FDA0De34b9577DB",
  "chainId": 4,
  "governanceChainId": 1,
  "governanceContract": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000004",
  "WETH": "0xbb4CdB9CBd36B01bD1cBaEBF2De08d9173bc095c",
  "registrations": {
    "solana": "0xec7372995d5cc8732397fb0ad35c0121e0eaa90d26f828a534cab54391b3a4f5",
    "ethereum": "0x0000000000000000000000003ee18b2214aff97000d974cf647e7c347e8fa585",
    "terra": "0x0000000000000000000000007cf7b764e38a0a5e967972c1df77d432510564e2",
    "polygon": "0x0000000000000000000000005a58505a96d1dbf8df91cb21b54419fc36e93fde",
    "avalanche": "0x0000000000000000000000000e082f06ff657d94310cb8ce8b0d9a04541d8052",
    "oasis": "0x0000000000000000000000005848c791e09901b40a9ef749f2a6735b418d7564",
    "algorand": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "aurora": "0x00000000000000000000000051b5123a7b0f9b2ba265f9c4c8de7d78d52f510f",
    "fantom": "0x0000000000000000000000007c9fc5741288cdfdd83ceb07f3ea7e22618d79d2",
    "karura": "0x000000000000000000000000ae9d7fe007b3327aa64a32824aaac52c42a6e624",
    "acala": "0x000000000000000000000000ae9d7fe007b3327aa64a32824aaac52c42a6e624",
    "klaytn": "0x0000000000000000000000005b08ac39eaed75c0439fc750d9fe7e1f9dd0193f",
    "celo": "0x000000000000000000000000796dff6d74f3e27060b71255fe517bfb23c93eed",
    "near": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "injective": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "osmosis": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "sui": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "aptos": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "moonbeam": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "neon": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "terra2": "0xa463ad028fb79679cfc8ce1efba35ac0e77b35080a1abe9bebe83461f176b0a3",
    "arbitrum": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "optimism": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "gnosis": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
  }
}

```

### Misc

To get the contract address for a module:

    $ worm info contract mainnet bsc NFTBridge

To get the RPC address for a chain

    $ worm info rpc mainnet bsc
